2005 Federal Reserve Bulletin
Monetary Policy Report to the Congress
Profits and Balance Sheet Developments at U.S. Commercial Banks in 2004
Background on FOMC Meeting Minutes
Trends in the Use of Payment Instruments in the United States
Community Banks and Rural Development: Research Relating to Proposals to Revise
the Regulations That Implement the Community Reinvestment Act
Report on the Condition of the U.S. Banking Industry: Fourth Quarter, 2004
Announcements
Legal Developments
Spring
Monetary Policy Report to the Congress
The year 2004 was marked by continued expansion in
economic activity and appreciable gains in employment. With fiscal
policy stimulative, monetary policy accommodative, and financial
conditions favorable, household spending remained buoyant and
businesses increased investment in capital equipment and
inventories, despite the restraint imposed by sizable increases in
oil prices. Labor market conditions improved significantly, albeit at
an uneven pace, and productivity rose notably further. Consumer price
inflation moved higher with the surge in energy prices, but core
consumer price inflation (that is, excluding food and energy) remained
well contained, and measures of expected inflation over longer horizons
held steady or edged lower.
Although economic activity had
increased substantially in 2003, the expansion nevertheless
appeared somewhat tentative as 2004 opened, in large measure because
businesses still seemed to be reluctant to boost hiring. Over the
course of the spring, however, it became clearer that the expansion was
solidifying. With slack in labor and product markets somewhat
diminished, the Federal Open Market Committee at its June meeting
began to reduce the substantial degree of monetary accommodation that
was in place. The gradual removal of monetary policy stimulus continued
in the second half of the year as the economy expanded at a
healthy clip on balance. The fundamental factors underlying the
continued strength of the economy last year should carry forward into
2005 and 2006, promoting both healthy expansion of activity and low
inflation.
Full text
(266 KB PDF)
Profits and Balance Sheet Developments at U.S. Commercial Banks in 2004
Elizabeth C. Klee
and
Fabio M. Natalucci
U.S. commercial banks continued to be highly
profitable in 2004. Return on assets and return on equity declined
moderately, but the economy's continued expansion and supportive
financial conditions helped keep bank profits in the elevated range
that has prevailed since the mid-1990s. Profits were trimmed a bit by a
narrowing of banks' net interest margins as the yield curve flattened
and competition put pressure on loan spreads. In addition, gains in
non-interest income were less pronounced than in 2003, and non-interest
expenses increased. However, the continued improvement in the overall
credit quality of business and household loans allowed banks to reduce
their provisioning for loan and lease losses, and delinquency and
charge-off rates for all loan categories trended down. Bank balance
sheets also expanded. A robust housing sector and generally low
interest rates supported residential mortgage lending, and increases in
demand along with an easing of lending standards and terms throughout
the year boosted commercial and industrial loans. Banks also
reported easing their standards and terms on commercial real estate
loans, and such loans increased despite soft conditions in some
markets. Still-low interest rates supported the continued growth of
core deposits, but the greater rise in bank assets required banks to
rely more heavily on managed liabilities, which rose strongly last
year.
Full text
(217 KB PDF)
Background on FOMC Meeting Minutes
Deborah J. Danker
and Matthew M. Luecke
On December 14, 2004, the Federal Open Market
Committee (FOMC) decided to move up the publication of its minutes to
three weeks after the end of each meeting. That action has cut in half
the average time between the meeting and publication of the minutes. It
has also apparently heightened public attention to the FOMC minutes. To
give additional context to the Committee's decision, this article
outlines previous changes to the release schedule for the minutes and
provides a brief overview of the content of the minutes and the way
they are now produced.
Full text
(56 KB PDF)
Trends in the Use of Payment Instruments in the United States
Geoffrey R. Gerdes
, Jack K. Walton II,
May X. Liu
, and
Darrel W. Parke
In 2003, for the first time, the number of
electronic payments in the United States exceeded the number of check
payments--a result of substantial growth in electronic payments
(especially by debit card) and a decline in check payments. The shift
toward electronic payments suggests that, as with other large
economies, many payments formerly made by check are now being made with
electronic payment instruments. As in past years, however, the value of
checks far exceeded the value of commonly used electronic payments.
Comparisons among groups of depository institutions of different
types and sizes suggest that the distribution of payments of different
types is linked in part to the types of customers those institutions
tend to serve. For example, at credit unions, which generally serve
individuals rather than businesses, checks accounted for a smaller
proportion of account debits, and debit card payments and ATM
withdrawals accounted for a larger proportion, than at institutions of
other types.
Overall, "on us" check payments, those for
which the payer and payee used the same institution, declined slightly.
The rate at which checks are returned also declined, while the rate of
returned ACH payments--almost twice that of checks--increased, in part
because of new types of ACH payments, including ACH transactions
initiated with a check.
Data gathered in 2004 also reveal some
differences among geographic regions. Debit card use was substantially
greater, and check use substantially lower, in the West than in other
regions. In contrast, debit card use was considerably less common in
the Northeast, and the decline in check payments since 2000 was less
pronounced in that region.
Indirect evidence--data on ATM
withdrawals and cash back from debit card payments--suggests that cash
remains a popular means of making payments. Industry data showing
increases in ATMs and ATM transactions appear to reflect a shift toward
greater use of ATMs and less use of checks to obtain cash, and do not
necessarily indicate an increase in the use of cash.
Full text
(149 KB PDF)
Community Banks and Rural Development: Research Relating to Proposals to Revise
the Regulations That Implement the Community Reinvestment Act
Robert B. Avery
,
Glenn B. Canner
, Shannon C.Mok, and Dan S. Sokolov
Since 1977, the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)
has required that federally insured banking institutions be evaluated
on their records of helping to meet the credit needs of their local
communities. In 1995, the agencies responsible for bank supervision
substantially revised the regulations that implement the CRA. The
revisions were intended to emphasize performance rather than process,
to reduce unnecessary regulatory burden, and to increase
consistency in CRA evaluations. Since 1995, "large" institutions,
generally those with assets of $250 million or more, have been
evaluated under a three-part test, whereas "small" institutions,
generally those with assets of less than $250 million, have
been subject to comparatively streamlined evaluations.
In 2004 and 2005, the agencies put forth several proposals to extend the
eligibility for streamlined examinations and an exemption from data
reporting to more institutions by raising the asset-size threshold from
$250 million to $500 million or $1 billion. A related
issue that the agencies raised was how to define which bank activities
in rural areas should be considered community development in CRA
evaluations. In this article, the authors, having evaluated data to
gain insight into the potential effects of these proposals, report the
findings of their research.
Full text
(56 KB PDF)
Report on the Condition of the U.S. Banking Industry: Fourth Quarter, 2004
Assets of reporting bank holding companies
rose $393.2 billion (or 4.0 percent), exceeding
$10.0 trillion for the first time. Loans, which accounted for
roughly half the increase, rose 3.5 percent, led by the
commercial real estate, home equity, and credit card categories. Nearly
all the growth occurred at the fifty large institutions. The increase
of 4.7 percent in securities and money market assets was largely
attributable to the addition of a single large foreign-owned
securities-oriented firm with significant portfolios of trading and
short-term money market assets.
Deposits increased 3.7
percent, while nondeposit borrowings increased 2.5 percent; the
latter influenced by the addition of the large securities-oriented bank
holding company. Net income declined 1.4 percent from the
previous quarter despite the increases in loans and other
interest-earning assets, in part because a flatter yield curve and
heightened competitive pressure in loan pricing eroded net interest
margins. Provisions for loan losses declined 2 percent as
nonperforming assets fell to 0.82 percent of loans and related
assets. For 2004, net income of reporting bank holding companies
increased 5.1 percent over 2003.
Full text
(53 KB PDF)
Announcements
Press releases and Board staff changes for the previous quarter.
Full text
(101 KB PDF)
Legal Developments
Various bank holding company, bank service corporation, and bank merger orders.
Full text
(273 KB PDF)
Federal Reserve Bulletin
Home
|
Economic research and data
|
Publications and education resources
Accessibility
|
Contact Us
Last update: August 22, 2005