ï»¿
Federal Reserve Board - Federal Open Market Committee announces approval of updates to its Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States Government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Main Menu Toggle Button
Sections
Search Toggle Button
Search
Search Submit Button
Submit
Home
News & Events
Press Releases
Press Release
Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below.
August 22, 2025
Federal Open Market Committee announces approval of updates to its Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy
For release at 10:00 a.m. EDT
Share
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on Friday announced the unanimous approval of updates to its
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy
, which articulates the Committee's approach to monetary policy and serves as the foundation for its policy actions. The updated statement, also commonly known as the consensus statement, emphasizes that the FOMC's monetary policy strategy is designed to promote the congressionally-assigned goals of maximum employment and stable prices across a broad range of economic conditions for the benefit and well-being of all Americans.
The Committee first adopted a framework statement in 2012. The
first public review
of its framework took place in 2019-20, and the
2025 review
was announced in November 2024. Today's updates reflect lessons from the economy over the past five years, and are intended to enhance the transparency, accountability, and effectiveness of monetary policy.
The 2025 review included
Fed Listens
events
at Reserve Banks around the country and a research conference that was held in May. The Committee's two percent longer-run inflation goal was not a focus of the review.
For media inquiries, please email
[email protected]
or call 202-452-2955.
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy (PDF)
Last Update:
 August 22, 2025